PS4 reciprocal hardware probe (RCPR00001)

Install IV0000-RCPR00001_00-RECIPROCAL000000.pkg using your existing homebrew
Package Installer. Launch "Reciprocal hardware probe" once. It runs automatically,
with no input or game required, then returns to the system menu. A blank screen
while it runs is expected.

Retrieve /data/reciprocal-hardware.txt through your usual PS4 file-transfer method.
Send that file, your console model (original/Slim/Pro), and firmware version.
The file is replaced each run. It does not access saves or modify settings.

The last line must begin RECIPROCAL_END and report 121856 rows. Missing END means
the run is incomplete; please send the file anyway. state_errors records register,
flags and MXCSR problems. scalar_packed_differences is an observation, not a
pass/fail judgment about undocumented arithmetic.

This test records 14 scalar/packed reciprocal and reciprocal-square-root forms,
544 input patterns, and all 16 rounding/DAZ/FTZ combinations with exceptions masked.
It includes legacy and AVX forms, scalar memory operands, signed zero, infinities,
NaNs, denormals and samples from every exponent. It is not exhaustive and does
not establish cycle accuracy or complete Jaguar emulation. Generated code and
faulting memory operands are not covered by this probe.

The source is included. Native Linux comparison:
  cd source/hardware/reciprocal
  make native-reciprocal
  ./native-reciprocal native.txt
  python3 compare.py /path/to/PS4/reciprocal-hardware.txt native.txt

The same eboot.bin may be run under shadPS4; its output is emulator evidence,
not a substitute for a physical PS4 reference. The comparison lists numerical
differences separately from unexpected state changes.

Generated-code comparison (developer build):
  make eboot-generated.bin
This copies the same 14 instruction routines into newly executable memory before
running the numerical suite. The installed hardware package still uses eboot.bin.

Optional protected-memory test, in a clean source directory:
  make eboot-generated.bin GENERATED_FLAGS=-DRECIPROCAL_GUARDED
It adds scalar reads at a guard-page boundary and recoverable page faults.
This variant passed with the production Linux translation client in isolation.
The integrated emulator currently fails in Vulkan allocation while changing the
page protection; its guarded run is not marked as passed.
