SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 shadPS4 Emulator Project
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

PS4 CPU hardware tests - ready-to-install FPKGs

For a PS4 already configured to run homebrew FPKGs. No SDK, compiler, PC script,
game files, or manual packaging is needed by testers.

1. Extract this ZIP. Copy the two .pkg files to your usual installation media
   and install them using your console's existing Package Installer.
2. Launch "SSE4a hardware probe" once, then "CPU profile readout" once.
   Each runs automatically without controller input and returns to the menu.
   They have no game screen; a brief blank screen is expected.
3. Using your existing PS4 FTP/file manager, retrieve these two files:
     /data/sse4a-hardware-result.txt
     /data/cpu-profile.txt
4. Send both text files, your PS4 model (original/Slim/Pro), and firmware version.
   If a test fails to start or crashes, include the error code or a photo instead.

SSE4a hardware probe (SSE400002)
Records the actual EXTRQ/INSERTQ destination register bits for all 84 cases.
It observes undefined upper bits without treating their values as a failure.
A full successful run has 84 RAW lines, 8 CASE lines, and:
  SSE4A_HARDWARE_END result=0
This result file is replaced on each run.

CPU profile readout (CPUP00001)
Records CPUID leaves and XCR0 on each CPU allowed by the application's original
thread mask, using both normal and generated CPUID. Restores that thread mask.
A full successful run ends with CPU_PROFILE_END failures=0 and a nonzero row count.
This result file appends runs; send the whole file.

These apps do not use game/save files, change system settings, perform CPU
hotplug, or open network connections. Removing the apps afterward is optional.
Both packages are built with OpenOrbis v0.5.4. Package validation and extracted
file comparisons are included. A PC/emulator smoke test does not establish
physical PS4 compatibility or hardware behavior; that is what we need testers
to check. No particular firmware version is claimed as hardware-tested.

Sources and build information are included under source/. Developers can rebuild
with OpenOrbis v0.5.4 and Clang/LLD 19:
  python3 source/hardware/ps4_fpkg/build.py --sdk /path/to/OpenOrbis/PS4Toolchain
The SDK's bundled Linux PkgTool.Core needs OpenSSL 1.1. On newer build hosts,
use an isolated compatible runtime or the OpenOrbis toolchain container.
This is a developer build dependency, not something testers need to install.

The OpenOrbis right.sprx module is included with its source and GPLv3 license.
Probe source is GPL-2.0-or-later; musl notices are included with each probe.
