SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 shadPS4 Emulator Project
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

Experimental xstate tracing inside shadPS4 (Linux x86-64)

This diagnostic homebrew is for the emulator only. Do not install this variant
on a physical PS4. main.cpp and cases.S remain the unmodified console probe;
build_trace_probe.py creates a marked or unmarked emulator variant in an output directory.

Build the candidate with ENABLE_EXPERIMENTAL_XSTATE_TRACE=ON. The validation
candidate also includes #5329, which makes guest memory protection independent
of GPU write watches. The feature is OFF by default.

With the candidate binary, OpenOrbis SDK, Clang, LLD, make and Xvfb available:

python3 hardware/cpu_xstate/run_trace_emulator.py \
  --emulator /path/to/candidate/build/shadps4 \
  --sdk /path/to/OpenOrbis/PS4Toolchain \
  --output /tmp/shadps4-xstate-trace

For automatic interception without markers, add --unmarked --timeout 900.
The runner sets SHADPS4_XSTATE_TRACE_AUTO=1 for its child emulator only.
Without that variable the experimental build keeps the original marked mode.
Automatic mode starts at the main guest entry, new pthread entries, module
initializers and guest signal callbacks. Tracing pauses during host-only module
loading/static patching, native pthread creation/exit and native signal delivery.
Those host operations can temporarily block signals and must not run with the
diagnostic trace flag set.

Use --icd /path/to/lvp_icd.json to select a software Vulkan driver if required.
The runner builds the diagnostic, creates a separate emulator profile, runs it
with a null GPU and its own display, checks the results, then archives the logs.
It only stops the emulator and display processes it started. No installed
emulator, games, saves, SSH session or streaming-session guard is changed.

Checks:
- 224 original register and exception cases compared with the PS4 capture.
- Generated instructions rewritten 64 times with W-to-X permission changes and
  64 times while remaining RWX. The guest code bytes must remain unchanged by
  the tracer after execution.
- XGETBV in 35 nested guest exception callbacks.
- Trap number, read/write fault details and the fault address in those callbacks.
- A callback repairs ECX and retries a faulting XGETBV at the original address.

The start marker is INT3 followed by the eight-byte NOP
0f 1f 84 00 58 53 4f 4e; the end marker uses 46 as the last byte.
Without automatic mode, only marked regions are traced. Automatic mode needs
no marker bytes and executes the original cases.S probe instructions unchanged.
Both modes read instructions afresh at execution boundaries. Eligible straight
lines run in a per-thread native buffer, with a maximum of 32 instructions or
256 bytes and one breakpoint at the end. A memory write always ends the block
so it can change the following instruction safely. Guest code is not modified.
Only a source page just executed natively can start a block; blocks cannot cross
its 4-KiB boundary. Eligible host instructions also use these native blocks.
Direct branches within that page and relative LEA instructions can be resolved
from the saved registers. Each dispatch handles at most 64 such steps.
RIP/EIP-relative memory operands keep their original target by adjusting the
32-bit displacement. A bounded set of per-thread nearby buffers is allocated
using ordinary mmap hints, without replacing mappings. If the displacement
cannot be represented, the instruction keeps using the original path. Guest
address-space reservations often prevent a nearby buffer; LEA can still be
resolved directly. Calls, returns, indirect/cross-page branches, x87 state
instructions and other unsupported forms retain native stepping. There is no
persistent translated-code cache. Faults and asynchronous signals restore the original PC
before guest callbacks run, including partial REP progress. Module helper trampoline ranges
are excluded from guest xstate interpretation, so they can save full host state.
Guest PUSHF/PUSHFQ hide the internal trace flag. POPF/POPFQ restore guest flags
while keeping interception active. Signal returns are checked before execution
resumes, including callbacks that change the instruction pointer.

Additional automatic-mode checks:
- 64 flag restore tests covering 16-bit and 64-bit forms, including DF and OF.
- Two simultaneously released guest threads executing 256 generated XGETBVs.
  One returns normally; the other exits through scePthreadExit. Both are joined.
- An illegal-instruction callback redirects RIP directly to unmarked XGETBV.
- Startup's inline XGETBV is unchanged and must report 7.
- Forward/backward REP copies fault partway through a protected page, then resume
  with the correct RCX/RSI/RDI, fault address and direction flag.
- Copied load and divide instructions deliver the original guest PC and exception
  metadata; callbacks repair an address or skip an instruction and run XGETBV.
- 32 writes alter the next instruction without a branch on a permanently RWX page.
- Eight asynchronous callbacks during ordinary instruction blocks preserve GPRs,
  YMM registers and the red zone, and execute a nested XGETBV.
- Non-executable code faults before running; RIP-relative loads and instructions
  crossing a code-page boundary retain their original behavior.
- 2,146 branch cases compared with the native CPU, plus an interruptible tight
  branch cycle whose callback redirects execution out of the loop.
- 1,152 relative LEA cases covering all 16 general-purpose registers, 16/32/64-bit
  operands, RIP/EIP addressing, displacement limits and ignored FS/GS prefixes.

The unmarked variant optimizes only output formatting and the unchanged-tail
check: SIMD equality checks all bytes from 832 to 81919; the original extent
scan still runs if any byte differs. No CPU test cases or masks are removed.

Limits:
- This remains a slow diagnostic path, unsuitable for normal gameplay. Native
  blocks reduce traps for eligible guest and host instructions; calls, returns
  and unsupported instructions still single-step. No game-performance claim is made.
- Guest code that requests its own single-stepping, uses IRET or changes SS is
  rejected rather than silently escaping interception. Debuggers, transactional
  execution and unusual flag/context manipulation are not validated.
- Rewrites between calls and writes to the next instruction are tested. Concurrent
  unsynchronized changes to executing code or its permissions are not supported.
- Guest-thread cancellation and unusual native signal-mask changes are not
  validated by this suite. The runtime remains experimental.
- Main, pthread and signal-callback entries have dedicated runtime checks.
  Module-initializer hooks compile and run during startup but do not have a
  separate xstate-specific fixture. Every possible native-to-guest callback has
  not been audited. There is no cross-platform runtime implementation here.
- Saved-state bitmaps still use native in-use tracking. The host may mark an
  initial SSE component in use even when Jaguar does not. Empty x87 register
  data is not a deterministic comparison target.
- Unsupported native state (such as guest MXCSR bits unavailable on the host)
  stops the diagnostic; there is no software arithmetic fallback here.
- This does not implement generated CPUID/RDPID, a complete Jaguar feature
  model, or Windows/macOS support.

For a shorter flags/thread/redirect diagnostic, use --unmarked --auto-only.
That mode does not run or claim the 224-case hardware comparison.
Use --unmarked --block-only to run the block, branch and relative-address checks.
Use --single-step to run the same binary without native blocks for comparison.
The runner sets SHADPS4_XSTATE_TRACE_BLOCKS=0 for that child only. The default
is 1; neither setting enables tracing in a normal build or outside a trace scope.

Use --no-relative-blocks to compare against the previous branch/host-block path.
Use --guest-blocks-only to disable host blocks, branch resolution and relative
address optimizations together. Both switches affect only the child emulator.

To exercise the actual production relocation helper directly on native Linux:

python3 hardware/cpu_xstate/run_relative_native.py \
  --source /path/to/candidate/source \
  --build /path/to/candidate/build \
  --output /tmp/shadps4-relative-native

This compiles the verbatim relocation/allocation helpers from the specified
source and records their hashes. It checks near/far instruction copies, refused
out-of-range displacements, original data addresses, vector loads, page-fault
retry, and allocation failure with errno preserved. It requires a C++23 compiler
and the candidate's already-built Zydis libraries. Use --cxx and --extra-flag if
your compiler needs an explicit toolchain path.

The normal console FPKG is unchanged and still uses the original unmarked probe.
